# malayalam-english-code-mixed-data-analysis
Indians and many other non-English speakers across the world, prefer not to use a single code in their messaging texts on social media platforms. They make use of transliteration and randomly merged English words using code-mixing, two or more languages to show their linguistic profciency (English- Malayalam, Tamil-English, etc.). Mixed code is generated when users use more than a single language in social network comments. Code mixing (CM) is a dynamically progressive area of research in the domain of text mining. Code-mixing is a linguistic phenomenon where multiple languages are used in thesame occurrence that is increasingly com-mon in multilingual societies. Code-mixed content on social media is also on the rise, prompting the need for tools to automatically understand such content. Automatic Parts-of-Speech (POS) tagging is an essential step in any Natural Language Processing (NLP) pipeline, but there is a lack of annotated data to train such models. 
It is frequently seen in multilingual communities and is of interest to linguists due to its complex relationship with societal factors. Past research has looked at multiple dimensions of this behaviour, such as it’s relationship to emotion expression and identity. But research efforts are often hindered by the lack of automated Natural Language Processing (NLP) tools to analyze massive amounts of code-mixed data. POS tags are used as features for downstream NLP tasks and past research has investigated how to obtain accurate POS tags fornoisy OSN data. POS tagging for Code-mixed social media data has also been investigated however, existing datasets are either hard to obtain or lacking in comprehensiveness.
In this work, we present a language and POS-tagged Malayalam English dataset from youtube comments. 
